#1324 Created .md for C#: Methods (#1338)
Codecademy/docs: content/c-sharp/concepts/methods/methods.md

A function inside a class is called a method. As C# is an object-oriented programming language, all functions are declared inside classes, making them methods. Thus, in C#, methods and functions are synonymous.

## Syntax

```pseudo
// Declare a public method without return type and no parameters:
public void PrintString()
{
  Console.WriteLine("Happy Holidays!");
}

// Declare a private method which returns an object and takes no parameters:
private int ReturnNumber()
{
  return 7;
}

// Declare a public method which returns an object and takes an input parameter:
public int CalculateWithParameter(int x)
{
  return ReturnNumber() - x;
}
```

Methods begin with a signature made of the following parts:
- An access level of `public` or `private` (`private` is the default)
- Optional modifiers (e.g., `abstract` and `sealed`)
- The method return value (`string`, `int`, `object`, etc.) or `void` 
- The method name (starting with a capital letter; usually a verb)
- Zero, one, or more (optional) parameters

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Codebyte Example
```

In the following example, two methods are separate defined: `Main` and `GetSquare`. When the program is run, the `Main` is executed first which, in turn, executes the `GetSquare` method with an `int` parameter passed to it. The returned value is saved to a [variable](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c-sharp/variables) and printed to the console:

> ```cs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```codebyte/csharp
```

Reviewer: It looks like C# is a valid language for making a runnable example called a "Codebyte" 😄

using System;

public class Example
{
  public static void Main(string[] args)
  {

>     var squared = GetSquare(5);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    var squared = new Example().GetSquare(5);
```

Since the `GetSquare()` method is non-static, it needs to be invoked an instance of the `Example` class (as suggested above). Otherwise, running this code will yield an error.

Another possible solution to this is adding the `static` modifier` to the signature for `GetSquare`.

---
Title: 'Methods' 
Description: 'A method in C# is a block of code that can be called from somewhere else in the program.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-c-sharp'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **method** is a block of code used in C# (and many other programming languages) containing statements. Each C# application has at least one method, called the `Main`, which is the starting point for the application. Methods are used to avoid the copy pasting of code, enabling better maintainability and readability of the code. Usually, a method has one or multiple dedicated purposes. 

## Syntax

To declare a method, the following parts must be present:

* The access level (`public`, `private`, ...) and optional modifiers (`abstract`, `sealed`, ...)
* The method return value (`void`, `string`, `int`, `object`, ...)
* The method name
* The (optional) method parameters

All parts together form the method signature. Methods are written with a capital letter and camel case. 

```pseudo
// Declare a public method without return type and no parameters:

> public void PrintHappyHolidays()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public void PrintString()
```

{

> 	Console.WriteLine("Happy Holidays!");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Console.WriteLine("Happy Coding!");
```

}

// Declare a private method which returns an object and takes no parameters:

> private int CheckNumberOfCookies()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
private int ReturnNumber()
```

{

> 	return 7;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  return 7;
```

}

// Declare a public method which returns an object and takes an input parameter:
public int CalculateLeftoverAmountOfCookies(int eaten)
{

> 	return CheckNumberOfCookies() - 7;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  return ReturnNumber() - x;
```

}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Methods begin with a signature made of the following parts:

- An access level of `public` or `private` (`private` is the default)
- Optional modifiers (e.g., `abstract` and `sealed`)
- The method return value (`string`, `int`, `object`, etc.) or `void` 
- The method name (starting with a capital letter; usually a verb)
- Zero, one, or more (optional) parameters

```

## Example

> The following example calculates the square of a given integer and prints it to the console. There are two methods present, the 'Main' method as well as the 'GetSquare' method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, two methods are separate defined: `Main` and `GetSquare`. When the program is run, the `Main` is executed first which, in turn, executes the `GetSquare` method with an `int` parameter passed to it. The returned value is saved to a [variable](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c-sharp/variables) and printed to the console:
```

```cs
using System;

public class Example
{
  public static void Main(string[] args)
  {
    var squared = GetSquare(5);
    Console.WriteLine(squared.ToString()); 
  }

  private int GetSquare(int i)
  {

>      return i*i; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     return i * i; 
```

  }
}
```

## Methods vs. Functions

> A function inside a class is called a method. As C# is an object-oriented programming language, all functions are declared inside classes, making them methods. Thus, in C#, methods and functions are synonymous.

Reviewer: I suggest omitting this header and moving this text from line # 71 to between lines # 14 and 16.

---
Title: 'Methods' 

> Description: 'Methods in C# are a block of code that can be called.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'A method is a block of code that can be called from somewhere else in the program.'
```

Subjects: 
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-c-sharp'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> A **method** is a block of code used in [C#](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c-sharp) (and many other programming languages) containing statements. Each C# application has at least one method, called the 'Main', which is the starting point for the application. Methods are used to avoid the copy pasting of code, enabling better maintainability and readability of the code. Usually, a method has one or multiple dedicated purposes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A **method** is a block of code used in C# (and many other programming languages) containing statements. Each C# application has at least one method, called `Main`, which is the starting point for the application. Methods are used to avoid the copy pasting of code, enabling better maintainability and readability of the code. Usually, a method has one or multiple dedicated purposes. 
```

Reviewer 2: We generally don't link back to the parent entry (The navigation in Docs already provides those links in the top of the entry)

## Syntax

> To declare a function, the following parts must be present:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To declare a method, the following parts must be present:
```

> * The access level (public, private, ...) and optional modifiers (abstract, sealed, ...)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The access level (`public`, `private`, ...) and optional modifiers (`abstract`, `sealed`, ...)
```

> * The method return value (void, string, int, object, ...)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The method return value (`void`, `string`, `int`, `object`, ...)
```

* The method name
* The (optional) method parameters

> All parts together form the **method signature**. Methods are written with a capital letter and camel case. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All parts together form the method signature. Methods are written with a capital letter and camel case. 
```

```pseudo
// Declare a public method without return type and no parameters:
public void PrintHappyHolidays()
{
	Console.WriteLine("Happy Holidays!");
}

// Declare a private method which returns an object and takes no parameters:
private int CheckNumberOfCookies()
{
	return 7;
}

// Declare a public method which returns an object and takes an input parameter:
public int CalculateLeftoverAmountOfCookies(int eaten)
{
	return CheckNumberOfCookies() - 7;
}
```

> ## Example

Reviewer 2: Formatting note here: Do not have more than one line break in a row, and headers should have a single line break before and after.

The following example calculates the square of a given integer and prints it to the console. There are two methods present, the 'Main' method as well as the 'GetSquare' method.

```cs
using System;

public class Example
{
  public static void Main(string[] args)
  {
    var squared = GetSquare(5);
    Console.WriteLine(squared.ToString()); 
  }

  private int GetSquare(int i)
  {
     return i*i; 
  }
}
```

## Methods vs. Functions

> A function inside a class is called a method. As C# is an object-oriented programming language, all functions are declared inside classes, making them methods. Thus, C# only deals with methods, not with functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A function inside a class is called a method. As C# is an object-oriented programming language, all functions are declared inside classes, making them methods. Thus, in C#, methods and functions are synonymous.
```
